[Music]
all right get ready for some woowoo this
strange island has been keeping a secret
for 80 years our story begins in the
Tasman Sea the body of water between
Australia and New Zealand it's exactly
here where the Lord Howe Island group
had been lying unperturbed until 1788
that year changed everything in the
history of this lost place as British
lieutenant Henry Lidge bird ball
discovered the central island of this
group as he was on his way to a nearby
Norfolk Island having fulfilled his
mission ball was heading home when he
decided to claim a newly uncovered
territory for his country at that time
nobody could have imagined the surprises
this island would have in store for
people decades later after balls
discovery permanent settlements had
already been established on the main
island by 1834 despite being just 6.2
miles long Lord Howe Island represented
and still represents an idyllic picture
of a tropical paradise as for the rest
of the islands belonging to this group
they were mostly rocky volcanic land
masses once people started finding out
about the islands they became a place of
buzzing activity and world-changing
benchmarks right after the discovery the
place was used as a port for whalers but
when this industry went into decline
another precious commodity was
discovered on the islands
Kancha palms somewhere around the 1880s
entrepreneurs started exporting these
trees from the island as a result these
flowering palms now grow all over the
world and after the Second World War
Lord Howe Island became a popular
tourist destination nowadays this
magical place with all kinds of natural
historical and cultural sites can
proudly boast the title of a world
heritage site
the waters surrounding the islands form
the Lord Hal marine park and all of the
groups 28 islands are protected by the
Lord Howe Island Act of 1981 however
with all that lush terrain and
unexplored forests home to countless
wildlife species you can't help but
wonder what mysteries this magical place
hides well the islands do indeed have
their own secrets and one of the biggest
ones came to light not too long ago
no it wasn't found out on the main
island to get to it we'll need to head
south west from the middle of the group
where we'll run into the famous balls
pyramid and why is it so well known
there are no people living on this
island and no beautiful beaches or
bright exotic flowers it's simply the
tallit volcanic rock formation in the
entire world
standing at 1844 feet high this island
is a remnant of an ancient six million
year old volcano yeah it's pretty weird
that for a whole century after this huge
sky piercing rock was discovered by the
already familiar to you lieutenant Henry
ball nobody stepped on its land
it wasn't until 1882 that geologist
Henry Wilkinson organized the first
documented journey to this place and
that opened the floodgates people
immediately wanted to conquer this
rebellious tower of volcanic rock
however for a long time nobody managed
to subdue balls pyramid for instance in
1964 some Australian climbers had to
stop their ascent when their supplies
ran out but in 1965 just a year later
four members of the Sydney rock climbing
club eventually reached the top before
we get ahead of ourselves though it's
worth mentioning that rock climbing was
completely banned on the island
throughout the 80s and if you want to
give it a shot nowadays get ready for a
lengthy and complicated application
process once you've gone through all the
red tape you just might be able to
triumph over the
hospitable Rock and you need to be
especially persistent in your
application process if you want to see
this Islands huge mystery we've been
building up so far alright we won't keep
you waiting any longer
this rocky hostile island is home to a
very rare life-form dry Yoko Seles
Australis also known as the Lord Howe
Island stick insect or my personal
favorite the tree lobster this massive
bug is actually in the same family as
walking-sticks but they should call this
thing a walking branch by the size of it
anyways
these guys were abundant on the island
until the beginning of the 20th century
and then the species just disappeared
out of nowhere as if the shiny black
insects had never existed at all not to
mention dry Yoko Seles Australis is an
enigma in and of itself it behaves
dramatically different from other
insects of this family first of all they
mate for life
can you imagine insects and love
excuse me I don't mean to bug you but I
find you attractive this fact alone
puzzles researchers to no end why would
they do that if the females don't even
need the males in order to reproduce
they can do that completely on their own
so what's with the lifelong coupling
nobody knows unfortunately the fate of
these insects was a tragic one and yes
that was past tense in 1918 a ship ran
aground near the Lord Howe Island
bringing disaster along with black rats
these rodents managed to completely wipe
out the entire population of the stick
insects within just two years in 1920
scientists declare the species extinct
knowing all this imagine the pure
amazement of a group of climbers that
encountered the remains of drea
casella's Australis when they were
ascending balls pyramid in 1964 this
finding seemed strange as the insects
hadn't been seen neither dead or alive
for 44 years several decades passed and
within this period of time scientists
discovered even more dead specimens
unfortunately they couldn't find the
source of the insects the big mystery
finally came to light in 2001 when a
group of researchers traveled the ball's
pyramid to conduct their own
investigation they had no luck during
the day so they decided to conduct their
research at night after all the insects
were evolutionarily nocturnal good news
their persistence paid off they ended up
finding 24 of these bugs that had been
so appropriately nicknamed the rarest
insect in the world it was a huge
breakthrough nowadays these guys aren't
that extremely rare anymore in 2003 a
pair of them was taken from the island
for breeding purposes and by 2016
they'd already hatched over thirteen
thousand eggs these eggs were
distributed across zoos in Canada the US
and Europe to make sure there will
always be a backup in case any problems
with the main group arise and that's how
a tiny community that had managed to
survive and hide from people for 80
years saved itself as a species do you
feel happy for the drought casella's
Australia's I'm happy that I can even
pronounce it would you call yourself a
happy bee upon hearing this news well
apparently that expression isn't as
ridiculous as it sounds in 2016
scientists found that bees feel emotions
at least they feel something akin to
happiness when they get sugar water
london-based researchers discovered that
bees who were given sweet treats
responded to stimuli faster than those
left without any yummy
this led to the conclusion that bees can
feel positive emotions going even
further if they can feel happy then
surely they experience negative emotions
too if you ever find yourself running
away from a bee you tried to swat but
missed then you probably made him angry
or scared and he's coming after you for
revenge be afraid
actually in recent years scientists have
made a lot of amazing discoveries having
to do with the animal kingdom for
example researchers just discovered the
Greenland shark in 2017 according to
records with a lifespan of over 400
years this shark is the longest living
vertebrate on our planet even longer
than my stepmother one of the reasons
for such longevity is the environment
the animal lives in the freezing waters
of the ocean floor are well known for
significantly slowing down metabolism
but scientists still hope that these
sharks hold other secrets to a long life
that we humans might be able to get in
on and yet even more good news thanks to
incredible and successful conservation
efforts humpback whales and pandas are
no longer considered endangered species
the giant panda was moved from
endangered to vulnerable on the list of
species at risk of extinction that
happened after a number of giant pandas
in the wild in China reached 1864 in
2014 which meant a 17% increase in the
population
as for humpback whales nine out of 14
populations of the species were removed
from the list one was marked threatened
and only four are still in danger isn't
that fantastic
do you know any other positive wildlife
news what you dare to hold a giant stick
insect in your hand
Oh tell us in the comments below don't
forget to click subscribe to stay on the
bright side of life
you